well Israel has wrapped up its defense
against accusations of genocide on a
second day of hearings at the
international court of justice in the ha
the defense team strongly rejected the
case brought by South Africa it told the
court that Israel was not seeking to
destroy the Palestinians but to protect
its own people in its war against Hamas
uh which many countries classify as a
terrorist organization of
children T Becker is a legal adviser for
Israel's foreign Ministry and in court
he attacked South Africa's handling of
the
case the entirety of its case hinges on
a deliberately curated
decontextualized and manipulative
description of the reality of current
hostilities South Africa purports to
come to this court in the lofty position
of a guardian of the interest of
humanity but in delegitimizing Israel's
75-year existence in its opening
presentation
yesterday that broad commitment to
humanity rang
Hollow it is unsurprising
there that in the applicant's telling
both hamas's responsibility for the
situation in Gaza and the Very Humanity
of its Israeli victims are removed from
view the attempt to weaponize the term
genocide against Israel in the present
context does more than tell the court a
grossly distorted
story and it does more than empty the
word of its unique force and special
meaning DW's correspondent Lucia Shulton
is at the icj in the Haag as she's got
more about Israel's defense against the
allegations of genocide brought by South
Africa two days of hearings have ended
here today in the heg on the second day
of the hearings Israel got a chance to
make its case and defend itself against
the allegations made by South Africa
South Africa is saying that Israel
breached the genocide convention by acts
and omissions that are genocidal in
character Israel strongly rejects this
and says that South Africa is distorting
the facts Israel wants to see the whole
case rejected and also does not want to
see provisional measures being put on it
South Africa has asked for these
provisional measures and among them are
for example the quest that the court
orders Israel to end all military
operations in the next step the court
will have to decide whether it brings
forward any kind of provisional measures
or not this is expected to be relatively
quickly the main case the question
whether Israel has indeed breached the
genocide convention or not this is
expected to take
years tww special correspondent AIA
Ibrahim joins me now from Jerusalem AIA
yesterday we were reporting on South
Africa's arguments uh in bringing these
charges of genocide against Israel at
the icj and today was Israel's turn to
defend itself how did it present its
case well this was an almost 3-hour
hearing and it so it's difficult to
really uh summarize uh all of the
arguments but a couple certainly stood
out to me there's uh the fact that uh
Israel claims that South Africa's entire
case is uh not factual that it takes
statements out of uh context Israel's
counterargument also hinges heavily on
the accusation that Hamas is actually uh
to blame for all of the atrocities that
South Africa accuses Israel of
committing uh because Hamas embeds
itself among the civilian population
essentially saying well yes conflict uh
means civilian casualties but really
it's hamas's fault because hamas's
strategy is designed to maximize
civilian casualties that's the Israeli
claim um they also the Israeli team also
says that um while civilian casualties
certainly are U you know tragic
uh fact of
conflict genocide the genocide
convention is not the correct framework
to address what is happening in Gaza but
uh more the laws of armed uh uh conflict
but I think what uh the you know perhaps
the strongest challenge to South
Africa's case that was presented today
was the question of intent genocidal
intent yesterday South Africa laid out
its case uh with a lot of quotes from
Israeli officials that have in one way
or another uh said that this war is
meant to or that the goal is to uh
destroy or um you know remove uh the
Palestinian population in uh Gaza the
Israeli team today says well these
officials are not part of Israel's uh
War cabinet they're not um uh they're
not uh their statements essentially that
their statements do not um comprise
official Israeli policies and then they
then they quoted other Israeli officials
who then said that there is no intention
to destroy the the Palestinian
population and that there's no um uh
that there's no intention to uh forcibly
remove them from uh the strip so they're
saying yes these were Israeli officials
but that uh they're not the Israeli
officials whose opinion really uh
matters and so they're trying to
challenge the the the claim of intent um
with uh with these counter quotes among
others from the Prime Minister himself
well thank you so much for bringing us
up to speed that is our special
correspondent a Ibrahim in
Jerusalem